Instructions used by human volunteers for conflict creation
===========================================================

The following text was used to guide the volunteers during the norm
conflict insertion. The document consists of a description for each step
of the system.

--------------

This README explains how to execute ``create_conflicting_norms.py`` to
introduce conflicts randomly in contracts from our
corpus.\ `1 <This%20code%20is%20available%20at%20<https://github.com/JoaoPauloAires/potential-conflict-identifier>>`__
The main goal is to create contracts containing norm conflicts
independently from a conflict detection algorithm.

**Execute:**

-  To execute, run the following command:
   ``python -B create_conflicting_norms.py``

**Options:**

-  After login, there will be two initial options:

   -  Pick a random contract; and

   -  Finish.

-  This option chooses a contract from the corpus at random. This step
   may return an error due to the choice of a contract without norms; if
   that happens, ignore the error and press (1) again. If no error
   occurs, the program will display information, such as the total
   number of norms extracted and the parties identified;

-  This option just clears the output folder and exits.

-  When the user selects a contract, the program adds a new option:

   -  Pick a random contract;

   -  Pick a random norm; and

   -  Finish.

-  Option (1) restarts the process with a new contract;

-  Option (2) chooses a random norm among the extracted ones.

-  When the user selects a norm, the program adds yet another option:

   -  Pick a random contract;

   -  Pick a random norm;

   -  Make a conflict; and

   -  Finish.

-  Options (1,2,4) are the same as before;

-  Option (3) displays the last chosen norm and asks you to alter it in
   order to create a conflict.

**Process:**

-  In this manual conflict insertion, you are intended to follow a
   series of steps.

   1. Execute ``create_conflicting_norms.py``;

   2. Insert your first name, and pick a contract with option (1);

   3. Choose a random norm using option (2);

   4. Choose the option to create a conflict (3).

-  You have to create between 70 and 100 conflicts of 3 types. These
   types are:

   -  Permission x Obligation (33%);

   -  Permission x Prohibition (33%);

   -  Obligation x Prohibition (33%).

-  A regular norm has the following structure:

-  **Example 1.:**

   -  “Purchaser must pay the product taxes.”

Given a regular norm, you will choose option 3, which allows you to
alter such norm. Then you have to alter it in order to generate a
conflict, e.g., if you got the Example 1, you may choose to create
either a Permission x Obligation conflict or an Obligation x Prohibition
conflict. In the first case (Permission x Obligation), a possible
modification can be described as follows:

-  **Example 2.:**

   -  “Purchaser MAY pay the product taxes.”

To ensure that you are really making a conflict, use the following Table
as a guide:

+-------------------+-------------------+
| Modal Verb        | Deontic Meaning   |
+===================+===================+
| can               | permission        |
+-------------------+-------------------+
| may               | permission        |
+-------------------+-------------------+
| must              | obligation        |
+-------------------+-------------------+
| ought             | obligation        |
+-------------------+-------------------+
| shall             | obligation        |
+-------------------+-------------------+
| will              | obligation        |
+-------------------+-------------------+
| modal\_verb not   | prohibition       |
+-------------------+-------------------+

You may also modify the structure after the modal verb creating a
conflict and altering the conflict structure (obviously maintaining the
same meaning), as the Example 3 shows.

-  **Example 3.:**

   -  “Purchaser may choose to pay the taxes related to the product.”

-  We recommend you to use more than three contracts to create
   conflicts, it allows us to test our approach in different contexts.

-  At the end of the process, choose option (4) and that’s it!

Thanks in advance.
